# surfs_up
## Challenge
For this challenge, W. Avy wanted me to isolate the months of June and December in order to get the statistics of the temperatures of each month (count, max, min, mean, standard deviation, and percentiles). First, I had to use a session query for june and use the extract function through sqlalchemy in order to get the information about the temperatures in order for me then to put that information into a dataframe called june_df. I did the same steps for dec_df dataframe, consolidating the temperatures for each month in each respective dataframe. After this, I did the extract for the total observations for each of the nine stations in both december and june and made a dataframe for each month. I then used the desribe function for each month giving me the stats for each month. I then did a combined dataframe with the June and December months showing the information and stats side by side for easier comparison. Finally, I added a few graphs to give the viewer a visual of the temperatures of each month.

Looking at the numbers, December has the cooler average (71.041529) compared to June's temperature average (74.944118). This is not a surprise due to the fact that winter months around the US are always chillier than summer months. The minimum temperature in June was 64 while the minimum in December was 56. THe max temperature in June was higher at 85 compared to the max in December at 83. For the most part, W. Avy should be excited about the temperatures around Hawaii due to their relatively mild averages, the temperatures seem to not get too cold, nor too hot. June does have a lower standard deviation than December temperatures indicating a more steady stream of temperatures closer to eachother than December which seem to be more volatile at a higher sd. Surfing in the summer months would be steadier due to the lower standard deviation and thus might attract more people due to this indicating a higher revenue for the surf shop. In December, the low temperature was 56, which I know is still not too cold for most avid surfers who do have bodysuits on keeping them at a comfortable temperature, so surfing should not take a big hit in the winter months in Hawaii.

Recommendation-wise, I would recommend adding the other weather stats such as the precipitation information W. Avy wanted at the beginning. Adding precipitation would give a reading on when it was likely to rain and when they would need to get ready for the rain which means less customers. Another recommendation would be to see if there was a way to add in the number of people on the beaches during each day in December and June on average (i.e. how many people there on a Monday/Wednesday/Friday/etc.) and see which days attracted the most people and the days that attracted most people would be the days they could advertise more outside the store with products.
